# LML
## On John Locke and the existence of innate ideas

In his work “An Essay Concerning Human Understandings,” English Philosopher John Locke raises his arguments against the philosophical concept of  innate ideas. In this paper, I will first reconstruct his arguments against this view, which suggests that innate ideas do not exist and all ideas come from our experience and observation. I will then explain the way Locke came up with his arguments step by step, summarizing what he is trying to convey. I will furthermore point out why is Locke’s argument wanting. Finally, I will evaluate his argument and develop my thoughts on whether innate ideas exist.

The innate idea is the concept that certain ideas – according to Locke, whatever is the object of the understanding when a [person] thinks –are inherent to the human mind at birth and do not require experience or sensory perception to be acquired . As he noted, “Some people regard it as settled that there are in the understanding certain innate principles. These are conceived as primary—letters printed on the mind of man, so to speak—which the soul receives when it first comes into existence and that it brings into the world with it . Locke raises a series of arguments against the innate idea. In this essay, I will mainly focus on the Book I of An Essay Concerning Human Understandings, which contains the following statements, 

1. Why is there no innate speculative principle in the mind
2. Why is there no innate practical principle in the mind

In addition to this, I will also adopt a small portion of Book II in which he talks about the ideas and their origin to construct a more comprehensive understanding of his point of view. 

*First, we must clarify what Locke refers to by saying something is speculative and practical. Nothing is more commonly taken for granted than that certain principles, both speculative having to do with what is the case and practical having to do with morality, or what ought to be the case’, are accepted by all mankind .Locke uses these two terms to distinguish between ideas related to knowledge and ideas related to action. Speculative ideas concern the nature of things, such as the properties of matter, and the laws of nature. On the other hand, practical ideas are concerned with moral and ethical principles, such as the concept of justice and the distinction between right and wrong . Now, we can move on to his arguments against innate idea.*

In Book I, Locke first states his objections to the concept of innate ideas at the beginning of Chapter 2 . He claims that our experiences and observations serve as the sources of our ideas. Using colors as examples, Locke argues that it would be absurd to suppose that the ideas of colors are innate to our understanding as we get to know the idea of color through our eyes and ability to perceive colors from external objects. Likewise, he suggests that it would be unreasonable to describe our understanding of different truths as something innate as we get to know such truths through our brains and abilities to study and understand the external world. Locke is trying to argue that we cannot say an idea is innate if we can only access it through our sensory experiences to observe or learn from the external world. 

Locke criticizes people who use speculative and practical principles as evidence for the existence of innate ideas. He argues that even if everyone in this world agrees innate idea exists, it does not prove it to be true since such universal agreement can be explained in other ways . Here’s how his argument goes. 

Firstly, Locke asserts that if innate ideas were real, everyone, including children and idiots – those who have no thought , according to him – would possess them. However, this is not the case, as these individuals often have trouble understanding even the most basic knowledge. He argues that if certain ideas were truly innate, they would be present in everyone regardless of their age or mental situation. If they were naturally imprinted, and thus innate, how could they be unknown? 

Secondly, Locke argues that if innate idea does exist, then why do people have to spend so much time and effort studying and learning knowledge that is imprinted on our mind? How can people who take this view think that we need to use reason to discover principles that are supposedly innate?  If certain ideas were innate, then we should already possess them without the need for any learning or experience.

Furthermore, Locke also suggests that the supposed innate idea is not universal as its content varies across different individuals.  He noted that people’s opinion and thought about moral values vary greatly. Hence, if certain ideas were truly innate, they should be universal and present in everyone’s mind regardless of their personal background. It is also obvious that there’s a significant difference between people’s moral standards and other values, which cannot be explained by innate ideas.

Lastly, in Book II, Locke argues that our mind doesn’t have any idea in it when we are first born . Let us then suppose the mind to have no ideas in it, to be like white paper with nothing written on it.  He raises the idea of tabula rasa, or white paper, describing our mind as a blank sheet that doesn’t possess any innate knowledge at the very beginning. 

Summarizing his argument, Locke concludes his objection to innatism. Most of his argument is pretty convincing as he successfully challenges innatism by offering empirical evidence that contradicts the concept of innate ideas. Using examples of color perception and the acquisition of knowledge, Locke argues that all ideas come from our experience. He also raises valid points about the absence of universal and consistent ideas across individuals, which questions the existence of innate ideas. 

However, I find a part of his argument wanting and problematic. According to Locke, the human mind was a blank paper at the early stages of our life. His tabula rasa theory implies young infants and newborns possess zero ideas and knowledge. In reality, this is not the case. Newborns and infants do acquire some level of knowledge and cognitive abilities. For example, newborns are innately capable of producing different sounds that symbolize different meanings. Baby’s ability to perform basic physical activities also suggests they possess some innate knowledge native to their mind. Moreover, if our mind was really like a blank paper, as Locke described, it means that we do not possess any knowledge and abilities, including the ability to learn things and the ability to form experience. Then how would we be able to learn anything at all? 

In conclusion, Locke’s objection to innate idea is sensible and convincing. However, the tabula rasa raised by him to explain the condition of our mind is problematic as it lacks empirical evidence to support it. Moreover, evidence also reveals the fact that our brain does provide some sort of innate knowledge and abilities. Innate idea is also necessary, as we would not be able to process any sensory experience without the innate abilities to learn and process information. Hence, we can say it is evident that our mind is not a blank sheet. Locke’s thoughts on innatism are not entirely correct, but it does highlight the importance of experience and the external world in shaping our minds.

